In the previous videos of the BFS
patterns, we have stored the notes gotta in
the queue.
But for this problem we need to store the node's
data as well as its depth in the queue
here first let us push the node 10 into the queue and
mark its depth as one
Next we will check know tense left and right nodes
are available or not.
If available push it in the queue and increment the
depth count by one and push it in the queue.
So here 10's left and right nodes are available
So push it in the queue and also push the
depth count as one plus one
That is two for both the nodes
So the depth of
nodes 20 and 30 is equal to two
We need to continue this process till we find the
leaf node.
And when we find the leaf node we can simply
return its depth from the queue
So next we will check now 20's left and right
nodes
Here both the left and right nodes are null which
means 20 is the nearest leaf node. So we can
return its depth.
That is to hear so the minimum depth of this
by Naret
Three is too now Let us take another example here
node 10 will be pushed and its depth will be
marked as one. Next node 10's right and left that
is nodes
20 and 30 will be pushed into the queue and
the depth will be marked as one + node 10's
depth that is 1+1 = 2. Next node 20's left
and right will be pushed into the queue. So nodes
40 and 50 will be pushed into the queue and
the depth will be marked as 1 + node 20's
depth that is 1 + 2 which is 3.
Next node 30's
Left child and right child will be pushed into the
queue that is node 60 and node 70 and the
depth will be marked
as 1 + node 30's depth that is one plus two
Which is 3. Next node 40's left child and right child
that he snowed 80 and 90 will be pushed into
the queue and the depth will be marked as one + node 40's
depth that is 1 + 3 which is 4
similarly node
50's left child node 100 right child 110 will
be pushed into the queue and the depth will be
1 + depth of node 50 that is 1 + 3
which is 4.
Next we need to push the left and right child of
nodes 60.
But node 60 is a leaf node and for this
tree node 60 is the nearest leaf node.
So we can return its depth which is three